.\"
.\" Documentation for timelineplot
.\" groff/troff/nroff format for linux man page
.\"
.TH TIMELINEPLOT 1 "2019-09-16" "" ""

.SH NAME
timelineplot - generate simple line plots with time on the x-axis


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtimelineplot\fR {\fIdatafile\fR|\-} \fIimagefile\fR [\fIoption\fR]...


.SH DESCRIPTION
Generate simple line plots from two columns of character-delimited 
data. The first column represents the time variable (x-axis) and the 
second column contains the values to be plotted.

\fBTimelineplot\fR is a wrapper for \fBgnuplot\fR with many options 
in the plot script adjustable by optional command line arguments.



.SH REQUIRED ARGUMENTS

.TP
\fIdatafile\fR

Two-column text file with time series data to be plotted. The default
column separator is the pipe character, "|". The first column must be 
a date string (default format is "%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S"). The second 
column must be numeric. Any additional columns will be ignored. 

Command line options may be used to specify an alternative column
separator or time format string. 

When \fIdatafile\fR is "-", read data from standard input instead of a file.

.TP
\fIimagefile\fR

File to use for the plot output image. This file will be overwritten 
if it already exists.

The output image will be created in \fBpng\fR format by default.



.SH OPTIONS

.SS Input modifiers

.TP
\fB\-sep\fR \fIcharacter\fR

Column separator for the input data file. Default is "|".
(The separator character should be enclosed in double quotes.)

.TP
\fB\-tfmt\fR \fIformat_string\fR

Format string describing the time format in the first column
of the input file. Default value is "%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S".


.SS Output modifiers

.TP
\fB\-xfmt\fR \fIformat_string\fR

Format string to use for x-axis labels in the output plot.
Default value is "" (no labels).


.TP
\fB\-h\fR \fIpixels\fR

Height of output image in pixels. Default is 300.


.TP
\fB\-w\fR \fIpixels\fR

Width of output image in pixels. Default is 400.


.TP
\fB\-format\fR \fIformat\fR

Image format for the plot image. Default is "png". Other
choices include "svg", "jpeg", and "gif".


.TP
\fB\-title\fR \fIstring\fR

Title to associate with the y-axis data. Default value is "".


.TP
\fB\-linetitle\fR \fIstring\fR

Title to associate with the plotted line in a key. (Not terribly
useful since we're only plotting one line.) Default value is "".


.TP
\fB\-xlabel\fR \fIstring\fR

Label for x-axis. Default value is "".


.TP
\fB\-ylabel\fR \fIstring\fR

Label for y-axis. Default value is "".


.TP
\fB\-xmin\fR \fItime_expression\fR, \fB\-xmax\fR \fItime_expression\fR

Minimum and maximum values to use for x-axis. Useful if a constant
scale is needed. Default is for the plot to fit the data values.
The time expression must be in the same format as the time values
in the input data.


.TP
\fB\-ymin\fR \fInumber\fR, \fB\-ymax\fR \fInumber\fR

Minimum and maximum values to use for y-axis. Useful if a constant
scale is needed. Default is for the plot to fit the data values.


.TP
\fB\-xrot\fR \fIdegrees\fR

Rotation angle for the timestamp labels on the x-axis tics. 
Default is 60.


.TP
\fB\-lc\fR \fIcolor_expression\fR

Set the color of the line. Default value is "#0000FF".
Any value that gnuplot will accept after "rgbcolor" can be used
here (e.g. "red", "0xff0000", or "#ff0000").


.TP
\fB\-lw\fR \fIpixels\fR

Set the line width in pixels. Default is 2.


.TP
\fB\-bgcolor\fR \fIcolor_expression\fR

Set the color of the plot background. Default is "#FFFFFF".


.TP
\fB\-grid\fR {xtics|ytics|"noxtics noytics"}

Set the background grid. Default is to show the full grid.
.br
\fBxtics\fR - only show gridlines parallel to x-axis
.br
\fBytics\fR - only show gridlines parallel to y-axis
.br
\fB"noxtics noytics"\fR - no background grid


.TP
\fB\-gridcolor\fR \fIcolor_expression\fR

Set the color of background grid lines. Default is "#B0B0B0".


.TP
\fB\-font\fR \fIfontname\fR

Specify the font. Default is "arial".


.TP
\fB\-fontsize\fR \fInumber\fR

Specify the font size. Default is 12.


.TP
\fB\-fontcolor\fR \fIcolor_expression\fR

Set the color of the fonts and borders. Default is "#000000".



.SH AUTHOR
Written by Evan Linde (elinde@okstate.edu)



.SH SEE ALSO
gnuplot(1)

More time format strings appear to work than are indicated by gnuplot's 
documentation. See strftime(3) for additional time formatters that might 
work.
